the term cognitive dissonance is
fashionable but we can't always be
talking about cognitive dissonance
sometimes self-deception must be just
self-deception sometimes a lie must
simply be called a lie I have a message
within my patreon group from riyaz I
just use first names when I refer to my
patreon contributors but many of my
pictures do use their their full names
Ria's is an example of someone who
actually had their mind changed on this
matter by the videos I've made here the
discussions and the podcasts have hosted
talking about domestication of animals
the ethical implications of this from a
vegan perspective so it's not the case
that there are just people who started
the discussion at one extreme or started
the discussion another there are
actually people were thinking about this
doing a bit of research and changing
their minds Andrea's is one example so
Ria's rights I'm shortening the message
slightly this is about getting vegan pet
owners to accept the cognitive
dissonance to find a solution one must
first accept that there is a problem
that also that's really my emphasis of
trying to get vegans individually and
collectively to recognize that this is
problematic we as continues it took me
less than three minutes to find the
following information when searching the
term feline tubal ligation okay so three
minute Google search change 3 s's
perspective here we as gives me the the
URL for the website this comes from and
then quotes this is from a fro pro
castration pro spaying and neutering
website obviously says spaying your cat
means never having to deal with her
coming into season again no more
plaintiff meowing in search of a mate no
more stains no more urine spraying no
more sneaking out the door between your
legs and bolting off before you can
catch her
okay the reasons for spaying and
neutering the reasons for castration are
not population control the behavioral
modification there to break the spirit
of the animal they're part of a process
of domestication and training that takes
what could be a defiant independent
self-reliant animal and turns it into a
play thing for human beings many many
vegans right in very lazily claiming
that the difference between a dog and a
wolf is explained by evolution
domestication is not evolution to begin
with this is a misconception and people
use numbers like 40,000 years for the
changes to talk whether or not you
believe the Scot the Scottish Terrier
has existed for 40,000 years is another
question but these types of changes the
selective breeding of dogs even the
creation of the Scottish terrier which
is less than 40,000 years ago this is
also not evolution scientifically or
just being rational and reasonable that
is not the meaning of the term evolution
but more fundamentally more generally
most of what vegans are perceiving as an
evolutionary difference is in fact a
difference caused by castration spaying
and neutering whatever you want to say
and the total removal of an animal's
reproductive system hormonal system from
its body and then of course also the
fact these specific animals these
individual animals have been raised
dependent on a human hand to feed them
sometimes from birth sums they're
separated from their parents as soon as
they're born they do not grow up in a
pack that you not like you know with
dogs they don't grow up in a pack they
don't grow up with their parents they
grow up being petted and cared for by
human beings or they grow up in a puppy
mill and a mass breeding program these
things profoundly alter the behavior of
any animal not just dogs not just cats
and you know throughout this I have been
very intentionally making the comparison
to animals like bears and deer okay if
your justification for castration is
population control
look at the forms of population control
we use for bears and deer you know
population control as such is not
justified castration all right
castration what you do to a dog in
domesticating a dog to try to turn it
into a well-trained obedient house pet
try to turn it into an animal that will
live on your couch live in your
apartment live in your backyard without
spraying urine searching for mate
without the example here was from cats
that will not exhibit these natural
behaviors will not try to you know
exercise its instincts in a pack in
hunting arranging and exploring we I
remember I read a study this is recently
just couple months ago in Canada study
looking at the different options for
population control for deer because as
I've said in 2016 it's completely
natural that natural natural hits not
the word it's completely inevitable that
human beings are engaged in wildlife
management and wildlife management
wildlife management takes many many
forms but wildlife management does not
justify a castration per se I remember
the study i read concluded that the
least invasive form of population
control with deer aside from actually
relocating them which is normally the
biggest issue in canada because it can
be quite expensive to relocate here um
there was a drug that we could actually
shoot out of a rifle it was basically
equivalent to the birth control pill but
you know as with humans there's a
difference between the birth control
pill and castration there's a difference
between the birth condemn and castration
there's a difference between allowing a
population of deer to continue living in
a way that is coherent with its own set
of instincts to feed itself to explore
the rome to live a wildlife while humans
are indeed perhaps worrying about
managing their population at a minimum
where that population is living but
possibly also these other these other
methods of
you know conservation etc you know
management of well populations of
animals there is no resemblance between
those questions and what we justify it
make excuses for as normal even what
vegans justify makes useful as normal
with domesticated animals the best gay
animals who are supposed to love you and
whom you were supposed to love sick it's
sick and it's twisted and I find the
excuses made by vegans genuinely stupid
and in many ways the stupidity is very
closely parallel to the stupidity of
meat eaters how many times have you
heard me teeters say if you if you've
been engaged these issues you will have
heard meat-eaters say oh well it doesn't
matter if the animal dies so long as it
isn't aware that it dies so long as it
doesn't suffer during its dying so the
the killing itself from many meat-eaters
perspectives not all many meat eaters
will claim that the the killing of the
animal has no moral significance it's
only if the animal is aware of and
suffers through its death that this is
of moral significance well this is
parallel to some vegans including
unnatural being and making the
completely scientifically false claim
that a dog is not even aware of being
castrated you ever met a dog you ever
seen a dog dogs literally lick their own
balls they look at they see they smell
their own testicles okay there is no
excuse for the self-deception the
stupidity the dishonesty of claiming
that a dog does not suffer that a dog is
not damaged and being castrated no
excuse for that as it talks literally
like thrown Paul's it's a dog-eat-dog
world people and as I said before there
is no justification moral justification
for domesticating an animal depriving of
its dignity independence to be found in
the act of rescue itself I do
acknowledge that rescuing an animal is
different from buying it but I do not
see a justification for domesticating an
animal shopping its balls off forcing it
to live as a decoration
apartment as a play thing for your
family or children I do not see a
justification for the exploitation of
animals as pets in the act of rescue
itself and the reason for that is that
I'm vegan so sorry coming back to this
message I got from riyaz who changed his
or her mind so I actually don't know if
it's a male name or female name we as we
has changed his mind on this issue in
response to my contribution of the
discussion has another quote from the
internet quote I don't yet see a way out
of complete gonna deck Tamizh for
felines so this is the polite term for
castration chopping off the testicles
cats are just not behaviorally amenable
to in home living when their ovaries and
testicles hold such an aggressive sway
over the behavior close quote so this is
another website admitting that the real
purpose of castration etc is to modify
the behavior of these animals again from
my perspective to deprive them of
dignity to deprive them of their normal
range of instinctive behaviors to
deprive them of their instincts and to
make them into toys for human beings to
enjoy ok close quote but now riaz
himself or possibly Ria's herself sore I
don't know Ria's goes on to say never
again can I look at rescuing dogs and
cats the same way Thank You izel even if
I never get anything more from your
content again I will still be very
grateful so on this one issue this one
vegan got a new perspective from what I
had to say here now look I mean you know
unnatural vegan accuses anyone who
disagrees of her with of pseudoscience
that anyone who disagrees there at su
design so if I say that domesticated
pigs can go feral my view is pseudo
scientific despite enormous evidence all
over the world of what happens when
domesticated pigs escaped from farms and
become Pharaoh I've seen it myself lots
of people have seen it you can read
studies of it it's no mystery it's not
like finding the cure for cancer the
behavior of pigs that go feral is the
most
widely observed thing in the world feral
pigs and pigs reverting to wild boar
babe but I'm accused of pseudoscience
meanwhile it's supposedly scientifically
respectable for unnatural vegan to claim
that dogs are not even aware they don't
suffer in any way they are not harmed in
any way by castration is that cognitive
dissonance or is that just a lie by
complete coincidence I have seen a
scientific study proving the opposite
and now most science is biased not all
but a lot of Sciences bias and the
report I read that was scientifically
proving that dogs do suffer that they
are aware of the the harm done to them
by a vikus tration um that was research
funded partly funded by and promoted by
um the new t'kul industry so within the
world of veterinary science there are
companies that try to make money by
convincing you that you shouldn't just
have your dog neutered but that you
should pay for a cosmetic surgery that
simultaneous the same time so that the
the vet doesn't just cut off testicles
but the debt vet does a more
sophisticated surgery that replaces the
testicles with fake testicles with
silicone replacement testicles so that
both the appearance of the dog is
preserved the dog looks more like a
natural dog and so that the dog is less
aware of the change of the harm done so
that when the dog is looking at and
licking its own balls it's not doesn't
suffer in the same way so like many
things you know like research promoted
by I don't know the alcohol industry or
any other industry this was one of those
cases when there was a profit motive
behind the promoting a certain set of
scientific findings not merely an
animal-rights motive look guys you know
i'll come back to what r es said same
thing i have to say to find a solution
we first have to accept that there is a
problem I do appreciate the letters of
support and appreciation of Godin from a
whole range of vegans I know that my
taking a stand on this means a lot
personally emotionally intellectually to
many vegans who have tried to take a
stand on this and who have been shouted
down denounced and hated by the crazy
cat ladies among us there are many many
vegans who are simply living a lie who
are living a lie that buying a dead cow
is okay as long as you're feeding that
cow dr pet cat or who are living a lie
about the nature of domestication itself
the nature of companionship itself the
moral justifications for having a
companion animal or for other specific
procedures such as castration if you
think from watching my videos then my
videos have at any point supported the
mass proliferation of stray cats or
stray dogs I'm sorry but I really do
think you're an idiot and no point in
any of my videos did I support the mass
proliferation of stray deer or stray
bears in our cities I talked about
habitat conservation wildlife management
etc I don't want bears eating out of the
garbage can in the middle of downtown
Victoria any city in the world any city
I don't want deer eating out of garbage
cans in downtown Victoria that's a real
problem many cities in Canada have bears
and deer coming into the city I also do
not want cats or dogs living as strays
in downtown cities because my whole
argument from alpha to omega is that we
should be treating cats and dogs
fundamentally with the same standard of
dignity that we apply to bears deer
penguins etc the moral obligation on us
if we rescue animals if we rescue
penguins or rescue a dog the moral
burden we're accepting is to try to
provide them with an environment as
close as possible to their natural
habitat to their wild conditions while
we've rescued them and that we should
attempt to reintroduce them to the wild
which may be gradual it may be it may be
impossible then you know sometimes we
rescue Tigers and there's just no way we
can revel attacker to the wild but
that's still not a justification for
castrating the tiger for turning the
tiger into a house pet for treating the
tiger like a toy
if you rescue a tiger and you can't
return to the wild you still have a
moral obligation to try to provide it
with a light as close as possible to its
natural habitat that may be a zoo
enclosure maybe some other half way
compromise you have to make but yeah
that is for me the moral baseline it's
taking the existence of these animals in
the wild is a standard if you watch what
I have to say on this topic on this
channel you're going to find that what I
ever say is nuanced it not only admits
of gray areas and contradictions I
emphasize and draw attention those
queries of contradictions but
fundamentally folks as vegans we have to
admit to ourselves that this is a
problem and the level of denial and
self-deception on this has exactly
presented prevented anyone from
admitting that there is a problem and it
has long delayed that constructive
discussion of possible solutions thank
you for your time